Welcome back.
Let's talk about a few more neat things they can do with a unit test.
And remember you can always go to the documentation on the Python Web site and learn more about some
of the things that you can do.
But notice here how at the end we added the if name main some of you may be wondering why this is useful
because so far we've just ran it from the command line as a single file and that has been working but
usually you have more than one file and you have each module tested with different functions.
Right.
So ideally you want to run all these tests in unison and the way you do this is to write Python and
then dash em and then give it the unit test that you want to run.
So now if I do this you see that everything is working let's say I add a new file here.
Let's say touch test to drop by which is a sure command on Max to just create a new file.
So now my desktop let's just copy this test that we occasionally have.
Go to my desktop and open up this in sublime text.
So now if I copy and paste this the exact same thing and I say this go back to my code and run unit
test you see that I have eight tests now that are being run and because I've added this if name main
I'm able to run all these tests with just one simple comment.
Now another neat thing is that we can do something called Dash V which stands for verbose and that is
that when we do this we actually get more information about the tests that we read.
So it gives you a little bit more detail you see which tests we've run and which ones are OK which ones
have failed as a matter of fact I can even add comments and dark strings to my test.
So let's say test do stuff.
I can say single code single code three times and simply say hi if I run this again with the dash for
command.
And this has to be on a single line I believe.
Let's say that again and run this.
Look at that.
I also get some comments so maybe I wanted to add a few comments on my tests.
I can add those as well what other neat thing can I do
a another default method that we get with unit test is something called set up and setup allows us to
run a piece of code that sets up before each call of the test.
So for example whatever I write in here let's say I wanted to setup my test and just print about to
test a function
now because I have this if I run my code now
you see that before each method I run the setup method first.
So you see that I say about to run a function about to run a function about to run a function and about
to run a function.
And then we have our test to file that we haven't done any setup for it.
So this is really really useful if you need to set up something before each function.
Let's say you have some default variables maybe that you need to set up well in that case this is a
very useful method.
Another one just like setup.
Usually you add at the bottom of the file and in here this is called a tear down and as the name suggests
we run it at the end of each method that we call.
So in here let's say cleaning up.
I usually use do this to clean up some variables maybe reset some variables if I run this you see that
I have now about to test a function and then we're cleaning up for each one of these methods.
So these two are very very useful when setting up and tearing down tests now tear down you won't use
as often.
Usually you use it if you're testing something more complicated like a database but we won't worry about
that too much.
Now all right there you have it for tests as you can see at the end of the day.
Tests are simply logical programs that we write rate is just a class and then we set up all these methods
to try and test our code as much as possible in our case we just had one simple function.
But by using test we're able to notice small things that can go wrong with the function and thus improve
our code so that next time somebody comes another developer comes and tries to modify this function
or maybe tries to call this function with something that is not right.
Well our tests are going to fail and it's going to let the developer know hey you're doing something
wrong.
Somebody who wrote this function before you somebody that wrote these tests before you told you to use
this function in a specific way.
Very very useful in the next video we're going to do a fun little exercise to make sure we understand
testing.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.